README.md, before:

# CTU Robotics Course - Code for Laboratories 
This repository contains the code base for creating a robotic toolbox in Python.
It is a template code that you need to complete to make it usable.
Our homework will guide you to complete it successfully.

There are two types of homework: (i) mandatory, which you need to finish to pass the course at CTU, and (ii) optional, for which you can get bonus points but which are not required to pass the course.
We use unit tests to verify that your implementation is correct.
For example, to test the first homework locally you can run:

```bash
pytest tests/hw01 # you will get maximum points if all tests here pass
pytest tests/hw01/mandatory # for mandatory part of the HW
pytest tests/hw01/optional # for optional part of the HW
```
In addition to tests, there are exercises that use your implemented functionality and demonstrate the usage of the framework. See [exercises](exercises) folder.

You are allowed to use only the following software packages to implement missing parts of the code:
```
python standard library, numpy, robomeshcat (only for visualization), anytree
```


## Installation
The best way to start developing your own version of the toolbox is to use this template repository to [create](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/duplicating-a-repository) your own **private** repository on GitHub.
See [GitHub tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-repository-from-a-template) for template repository cloning.

We recommend using conda to create a replicable environment:
```bash
conda create -n ctu_robotics python=3.8 poetry
conda activate ctu_robotics
# Clone your repository and install it
git clone <your_github_repo>
cd <your_github_repo_name>
poetry install # this will install the toolbox
```

### Windows
In windows, one of our dependency (Pinocchio) cannot be installed via pip/poetry.
You need to install it by conda instead:
```bash
conda create -n ctu_robotics python=3.8 poetry
conda activate ctu_robotics
conda install -c conda-forge poetry pinocchio robomeshcat example-robot-data matplotlib numpy pycollada shapely anytree ruff black pytest
git clone <your_github_repo>
cd <your_github_repo_name>
poetry install --only-root
```

## BRUTE

To get points for the assignments in CTU evaluation system BRUTE, zip the whole repository and upload the zip to the BRUTE system.
For example, to get points for HW01, upload the whole repository to BRUTE assignments hw01 before the deadline that you see in the system.

# Homework and laboratories
- [Lab01](docs/lab01.md) - transformations
- [Lab02](docs/lab02.md) - forward kinematics
- [Lab03](docs/lab03.md) - differential kinematics
- [Lab04](docs/lab04.md) - inverse kinematics
- [Lab06](docs/lab06.md) - motion planning

Commit message:

update readme with macos installation instructions. Resolves #3 and Resolves #1

README.md, after:

# CTU Robotics Course - Code for Laboratories 
This repository contains the code base for creating a robotic toolbox in Python.
It is a template code that you need to complete to make it usable.
Our homework will guide you to complete it successfully.

There are two types of homework: (i) mandatory, which you need to finish to pass the course at CTU, and (ii) optional, for which you can get bonus points but which are not required to pass the course.
We use unit tests to verify that your implementation is correct.
For example, to test the first homework locally you can run:

```bash
pytest tests/hw01 # you will get maximum points if all tests here pass
pytest tests/hw01/mandatory # for mandatory part of the HW
pytest tests/hw01/optional # for optional part of the HW
```
In addition to tests, there are exercises that use your implemented functionality and demonstrate the usage of the framework. See [exercises](exercises) folder.

You are allowed to use only the following software packages to implement missing parts of the code:
```
python standard library, numpy, robomeshcat (only for visualization), anytree
```


## Installation
The best way to start developing your own version of the toolbox is to use this template repository to [create](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/duplicating-a-repository) your own **private** repository on GitHub.
See [GitHub tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-repository-from-a-template) for template repository cloning.

### Linux
We recommend using conda to create a replicable environment:
```bash
# Clone your repository and install it
git clone <your_github_repo>
cd <your_github_repo_name>

# Create an conda environment with python 3.8 
conda create -n ctu_robotics python=3.8 poetry
conda activate ctu_robotics
poetry install # this will install the toolbox and all the dependencies
```

### MacOS
For macOS, one of our dependency (Pinocchio) cannot be installed via pip/poetry.
You need to install dependencies by conda instead:
```bash
# Clone your repository and install it
git clone <your_github_repo>
cd <your_github_repo_name>

# Create an conda environment with python 3.8 
conda create -n ctu_robotics python=3.8 poetry
conda activate ctu_robotics
conda install -c conda-forge poetry pinocchio robomeshcat example-robot-data matplotlib numpy pycollada shapely anytree ruff black pytest
poetry install --only-root # this will install the toolbox without dependencies
```

### Windows
In windows, one of our dependency (Pinocchio) cannot be installed via pip/poetry.
You need to install dependencies by conda instead:
```bash
git clone <your_github_repo>
cd <your_github_repo_name>

conda create -n ctu_robotics python=3.8 poetry
conda activate ctu_robotics
conda install -c conda-forge poetry pinocchio robomeshcat example-robot-data matplotlib numpy pycollada shapely anytree ruff black pytest
poetry install --only-root # this will install the toolbox without dependencies
```

## BRUTE

To get points for the assignments in CTU evaluation system BRUTE, zip the whole repository and upload the zip to the BRUTE system.
For example, to get points for HW01, upload the whole repository to BRUTE assignments hw01 before the deadline that you see in the system.

# Homework and laboratories
- [Lab01](docs/lab01.md) - transformations
- [Lab02](docs/lab02.md) - forward kinematics
- [Lab03](docs/lab03.md) - differential kinematics
- [Lab04](docs/lab04.md) - inverse kinematics
- [Lab06](docs/lab06.md) - motion planning
